---
layout: post
category: ideas
---
{% include JB/setup %}

It happened several times that a library appealed to me just for a few handy methods. I think depending on a library just for a few static methods is a shame. Why? Because depending on a library is an act of committment. When you depend on a library you depend on:

&rarr; Trust, when you download code which you don't own, you have to trust that the person who wrote it knew what she or he was doing. The basic functionality has to be reliable. Edge cases have to be taken care of. As a developer, you know these things are hard, and you know also that you've been let down by libraries before.

&rarr; Luck, you have to be somewhat lucky to find a library that does exactly what you need. Most of the time it will do something approaching your need and you'll have to deal with it with some wrapper and unefficient code to get it working.

&rarr; Bug fixing, you really depend on the maintainer(s) for the bug fixing. The do it yourself approach is valid but you would do it only if the library is really important to you, and the library maintenance is open enough to accept pull requests. You can't really afford that on too many libraries.

&rarr; Public repo publication, on the JVM I would'nt use a library not published on a public repo, it's just too much hassle.

&rarr; Backward compatibility, this is the most tricky one. Anything could break when you change version, even if the method signatures seem to be the same.

&rarr; Compatibility with other libraries, can be really painful.

&rarr; Licencing compatibility, it's low risk I have to admit, but it's better to check, we never know.

When you use libraries, you have to be aware of all that.

Now let's go on the other side, the author(s) of that library. As an author you have to be aware of all the users who are aware of all that. It is daunting. That's what makes me think that open source libraries should be the responsibility of mainly companies and heavily invested developers. But still, I really want to enjoy all the fantastic common knowledge generated by the millions of developer ready to share their code. And I think the simple copy and paste will do just fine for the majority of these cases. It is so much easier, for the authors, and the developers. You-author write that piece of code, publish it, and forget it. You-user copy that piece of code, put it in your house framework and that's it, it's yours.

Pasting code is good because:
- you can tailor that code to your exact needs
- because depending on someone else's library is an act of commitment and trust

BUT, and that's where I want to bring you dear reader, pasting is only good when:
- you understand what you copy
- the piece of code is reliable

And there is no service to my knowledge that goes in that direction.
One might say "use a paste bin!" but I'd answer that you can't trust a piece of code coming from a paste bin.

What that service of my wildest dreams would do:
- tests with 80% coverage mandatory (verifying/publishing other metrics would be nice too) -> you copy the tests alongside the production code
- live running of the tests after modification, with a green/red flag telling me if that code runs
- a limit on the number of files and lines per file (go put your code in a full blown library if you go past that limit)
- relevant search
- double display on one screen of the tests on the left and the production code on the right (tests gives you all the things you need to know, being what it does and samples)
- cool stats like the number of people who copied the piece of code
- good old comments to help making that code better

To summarize, that service would be a cross between a gist.github.com, TDD and an integration server. And as it is a bit of dream, I'll push even further by adding social features geared toward safer, high quality code.

**Am I the only one out there who wants that service?**
